Jina (they/she) is a design systems advocate. At Asana, they manage the 
designers on the design system team. They founded Clarity, the premier design 
systems community conference. They also began the Design Systems Coalition and 
its inaugural chapter in San Francisco. And they manage the Design Systems Slack 
(with 20K+ members).

They also co-chair the W3C Design Tokens Community Group. And on the Sass core 
team, they lead the brand and website design and development.

In the Google Developers Experts program, Jina was recognized as a Product
Design Expert in Visual Design (until they sunset that category). Currently,
they remain an expert in the program now in the Web Technologies category. 

Jina has been making websites as a hobby for about 25 years. They've worked 
professionally in the industry for 20 years (17 of those years working with 
design systems).

Earlier in her career, Jina worked at Apple’s Online Store during the launch of 
the iPhone. As a frontend UX engineer, they led the online store’s CSS 
architecture and documentation towards web standards globally across all store 
instances for locales, education and business-to-business, and more. They also 
supported the marketing and communication teams to build out components for 
time-sensitive product launches. Then, as a visual interaction designer, Jina 
worked on overall UI chrome for the store, sign in/account creation flows, 
shopping cart and check out flows, as well as product configurations for
purchasing Macs, iPhones, iPods, and more.

At Salesforce, Jina was the founding designer on the Salesforce Lightning Design 
System and helped create design tokens (which has become an industry standard 
methodology for scaling design decisions across multiple platforms and 
products). They also led the Salesforce UX community and evangelism efforts, by
acting as Editor-in-Chief for the Salesforce UX blog, managing the social media
channels, hosting and organizing sponsorships for meet ups and conferences, and
coordinating speakers.

Additionally, Jina led design systems and operations for Amazon’s no-code app 
builder, Honeycode. They supported the team with visual systems direction, 
accessibility, frontend development best practices, managing and rolling out
design tool access, setting up workshops, and more.

Jina has also advised design system teams, products, and startups. At Opvitae, 
they are an advisory board member focused on UX and design. They advise Haiku, 
the company that created Diez, a design token framework tool. Jina also was a 
committee lead for AIGA San Francisco, where they helped with social and content 
promotion.

Throughout Jina's career, they have worked at companies including GitHub, 
Engine Yard, Crush + Lovely, inferno, Oden, Memphis Brooks Museum of Art, etc. 
And through consulting, coaching, and agency work, they've worked with Amazon, 
Delta, FedEx, IBM, International Paper, JustWorks, Mass.gov, Panasonic, Pfizer, 
Spotify, Upwork, W3C Web Accessibility Initiative, and many more.

Jina co-authored the Design Systems Handbook (DesignBetter.Co by InVision), 
Fancy Form Design (SitePoint), and The Art & Science of CSS (SitePoint). She was 
a tech editor for Sass for Web Designers (by Dan Cederholm, A Book Apart) and 
Sexy Web Design (by Elliot Jay Stocks, SitePoint). She has written articles for 
publications including A List Apart, 24 Ways, The Pastry Box, Sitepoint, net 
Magazine, and Treehouse.

Jina has keynoted Design Systems London, Design Systems Conference Helsinki, 
CSS Dev Conf, and ConvergeSE, was a featured speaker at Adobe MAX, and has also 
spoken at events such as AIGA Design Conference, An Event Apart, and many more.

Jina has been featured in net Magazine several times, and Print Magazine 
featured her as a leading San Francisco creative.

She has been said to be one of the most cheerful goths.
